golang-delve.md, before:

# GOLANG DELVE

### Install Delve

```console
go get -u github.com/derekparker/delve/cmd/dlv
cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/go-delve/delve
make install
```

### Install For Linux On Mac

```
cd $HOME/go
GOARCH=amd64 GOOS=linux go build -o src/github.com/derekparker/delve/cmd/dlv github.com/derekparker/delve/cmd/dlv
```

### Using Vim-Delve

Set breakpoint and run delve

```console
:DlvToggleBreakpoint
:DlvDebug
```

## Running Delve

[CLI](https://github.com/derekparker/delve/tree/master/Documentation/cli)

### Run Debugger From Main.Go File Location

```Console
dlv debug main.go
```

### Passing CLI Flags For Application

from package main file if in Neovim

```golang
:DlvDebug -- ./eph-music upload --file upload-file.txt
```

## Debugging

Print Function Arguments

```console
args
```

Print Struct Properties

```console
print req.Chunk.Content
```

Run Until Next Breakpoint / Program End

```console
$ continue
```

## Breakpoints

Set breakpoint on Main function

```console
break main.main
```

Set An Exact Breakpoint Line Number

```console
b endpoints.go:22
```

Set breakpoint in code [SO](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/35856911/how-can-i-set-breakpoints-by-the-sourcefile-line-number-in-delve)

```golang
runtime.Breakpoint()
```

## Print Long Strings In Debugger

[SO](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/52416263/how-do-i-print-the-full-value-of-a-string-variable-in-delve)

```console
(dlv) config -list
aliases                map[]
substitute-path        []
max-string-len         <not defined>
max-array-values       <not defined>
show-location-expr     false
source-list-line-color 34
debug-info-directories [/usr/lib/debug/.build-id]
(dlv) config max-string-len 1000
```

## Delve Go Test

```console
dlv test
```

## Delve Go Test Run Specific Tests

```console
dlv test -- -test.v --test.run TestMyFunction
```

Commit message:

notes on javascript, cpp, ninja/cmake, aws, golang

golang-delve.md, after:

# GOLANG DELVE

## Summary

Notes on working with the `delve` debugger in golang

## Installation

```console
go get -u github.com/derekparker/delve/cmd/dlv
cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/go-delve/delve
make install
```

#### Install For Linux On Mac

```
cd $HOME/go
GOARCH=amd64 GOOS=linux go build -o src/github.com/derekparker/delve/cmd/dlv github.com/derekparker/delve/cmd/dlv
```

## Using Vim-Delve

Set breakpoint and run delve

```console
:DlvToggleBreakpoint
:DlvDebug
```

## Running Delve

[CLI](https://github.com/derekparker/delve/tree/master/Documentation/cli)

#### Run Debugger From Main.Go File Location

```Console
dlv debug main.go
```

#### Passing CLI Flags For Application

from package main file if in Neovim

```golang
:DlvDebug -- ./eph-music upload --file upload-file.txt
```

## Debugging

Print Struct Properties

```console
print req.Chunk.Content
```

Run Until Next Breakpoint / Program End

```console
continue
```

## Breakpoints

Set breakpoint on Main function

```console
break main.main
```

Set An Exact Breakpoint Line Number

```console
b endpoints.go:22
```

Set breakpoint in code [SO](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/35856911/how-can-i-set-breakpoints-by-the-sourcefile-line-number-in-delve)

```golang
runtime.Breakpoint()
```

## Variables / Arguments

##### Print Function Arguments

`args`

#### Print Local Variables

`locals`

#### Print Long Strings In Debugger

[SO](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/52416263/how-do-i-print-the-full-value-of-a-string-variable-in-delve)

```console
(dlv) config -list
aliases                map[]
substitute-path        []
max-string-len         <not defined>
max-array-values       <not defined>
show-location-expr     false
source-list-line-color 34
debug-info-directories [/usr/lib/debug/.build-id]
(dlv) config max-string-len 1000
```

## Delve Go Test

```console
dlv test
```

## Delve Go Test Run Specific Tests

```console
dlv test -- -test.v --test.run TestMyFunction
```
