terraform.md, before:

# TERRAFORM

## Installation
[Getting Started](https://www.terraform.io/intro/getting-started/install.html)

Steps:
* [Download](https://www.terraform.io/downloads.html) terraform in to the
`$HOME/Downloads` folder

* Make a directory, unzip / copy the binary
```console
mkdir $HOME/bin
unzip $HOME/Downloads/terraform_0.11.8_darwin_amd64.zip -d $HOME/bin
```

* Add the below line to your `.bashrc, .bash_profile, .zshrc` file
```shell
export PATH=$HOME/bin:$PATH
```

## Documentation
[AWS](https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/aws/index.html)

## Tutorials / Learning
[Best Course - Learn DevOps: Infrastructure Automation With Terraform](https://www.udemy.com/learn-devops-infrastructure-automation-with-terraform/learn/v4/content)

## Examples
[Gruntwork Introduction to Terraform](https://blog.gruntwork.io/an-introduction-to-terraform-f17df9c6d180)
[Terraform AWS Modules](https://github.com/terraform-aws-modules)

## Functions
### cidrsubnet
[Article](http://blog.itsjustcode.net/blog/2017/11/18/terraform-cidrsubnet-deconstructed/)

### Route Table Associations
[Count](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/51739482/terraform-how-to-associate-multiple-subnet-to-route-table)

### Tags For Autoscaling Groups
[Github Issue Solution](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform/issues/15226)
```
data "null_data_source" "asg-tags" {
  count = "${length(keys(var.tags))}"
  inputs = {
    key                 = "${element(keys(var.tags), count.index)}"
    value               = "${element(values(var.tags), count.index)}"
    propagate_at_launch = "true"
  }
}

resource "aws_autoscaling_group" "my-group" {
  ....
  tags = ["${data.null_data_source.asg-tags.*.outputs}"]
```

Commit message:

add link on terraform automation

terraform.md, after:

# TERRAFORM

## Summary

General notes on terraform

## Resources

[Automation](https://learn.hashicorp.com/terraform/development/running-terraform-in-automation)

## Installation

[Getting Started](https://www.terraform.io/intro/getting-started/install.html)

Steps:

- [Download](https://www.terraform.io/downloads.html) terraform in to the
  `$HOME/Downloads` folder

- Make a directory, unzip / copy the binary

```console
mkdir $HOME/bin
unzip $HOME/Downloads/terraform_0.11.8_darwin_amd64.zip -d $HOME/bin
```

- Add the below line to your `.bashrc, .bash_profile, .zshrc` file

```shell
export PATH=$HOME/bin:$PATH
```

## Documentation

[AWS](https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/aws/index.html)

## Tutorials / Learning

[Best Course - Learn DevOps: Infrastructure Automation With Terraform](https://www.udemy.com/learn-devops-infrastructure-automation-with-terraform/learn/v4/content)

## Examples

[Gruntwork Introduction to Terraform](https://blog.gruntwork.io/an-introduction-to-terraform-f17df9c6d180)
[Terraform AWS Modules](https://github.com/terraform-aws-modules)

## Functions

### cidrsubnet

[Article](http://blog.itsjustcode.net/blog/2017/11/18/terraform-cidrsubnet-deconstructed/)

### Route Table Associations

[Count](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/51739482/terraform-how-to-associate-multiple-subnet-to-route-table)

### Tags For Autoscaling Groups

[Github Issue Solution](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform/issues/15226)

```
data "null_data_source" "asg-tags" {
  count = "${length(keys(var.tags))}"
  inputs = {
    key                 = "${element(keys(var.tags), count.index)}"
    value               = "${element(values(var.tags), count.index)}"
    propagate_at_launch = "true"
  }
}

resource "aws_autoscaling_group" "my-group" {
  ....
  tags = ["${data.null_data_source.asg-tags.*.outputs}"]
```
